Introduction to Truckin'

Truckin' is a board game like monopoly where several players buy and
sell commodities attempting to amass the greatest profit by the
end of the game. It could be played by humans, but here each player
writes a program which decides each move. The programs are frozen before
each game, so there is no human intervention. The game was invented
by Mark Stefik and other Expert System researchers at Xerox Palo Alto
Research Centre early in 1983. They called it a "knowledge competition",
based on the assumption that the most knowledgable player wins.

Here is a sample board:

      Name          Action     Commodity        Amount     Price

  Parramatta      start         Nothing                0         0
  Coop Bookshop   buyer         Books                261     34496
  Dip             hazard        Nothing                0         0
  UNSW            buyer         VAXes                  4  28105033
  Perth Mint      seller        Gold Bars           3368     38298
  Axle check      weigh         Nothing                0         0
  ESR             buyer         TVs                   30     47112
  Prouds          buyer         Diamonds             158     38000
  Alices          finish        Nothing                0         0

The prices are in cents.

This information is available in Prolog format, see
%6.606/truckin/world.prolog. At each new turn, the players' programs
examine this information and each suggests the next move.  To run your
program type:

	%6.606/bin/truckin <your program>

This will deal up a board and maintain it according to the moves you
make. The referee program asks for your move with a goal such as

	move(claude, Type, Quantity)?

Your program should contain a rule called move which will instantiate
Type with either the atom 'm' or 't' (indicating Move or Transact), and
Quantity with an integer (this may be negative only if Move is 'm').
'm' indicates 'move'.  The first argument must be a name which uniquely
identifies your truck.  For example, move(claude,m,3) means move 3
spaces forward, move(claude,m,-6) means move 6 spaces backwards and "m
0" means stay put.  The maximum number of places which can be traversed
in one turn is 8.  't' indicates transfer: you buy if you are on a
seller and sell if you are on a buyer.  For example, if you are on "De
Beers" (whose type is a seller and whose commodity is diamonds), and
you issue the command move(claude,t,10) you get 10 diamonds added to
the list of things you are holding, and the quantity of diamonds that
DeBeers is willing to sell is decreased by 10.  When there is more than
one trucker trying to transact at the same place, the shopkeeper will
select a random ordering of the players and trade 1 unit at a time in a
round-robin fashion.  This makes it as fair as possible, and chance
only enters into it on the rare occasion when 2 truckers are both
trying to get the last of a big-ticket item (such as a VAX).

Everone starts at the place designated "start" (currently Parramatta
Rd) with the same amount of money (currently $1000). At the end of a
set number of moves (currently 180) they must be sitting at a place
designated "finished" currently "Alice's".  The player with the most
money wins.

There are many things to watch out for on the way. It is necessary to
buy fuel occasionally. One unit (litre)
of fuel is consumed per square moved.

The following is a statement of intent for the nature and behaviour of
the world.  The word "invariant" means known before program submission.
The word "set" means set according to an invariant algorithm after
program submission and thereafter not changed.
The word "some" means possibly different at every move.  

For example, place names are taken from a (fairly stable) list,
and are placed randomly around the board at the start of each game.
All places have unique invariant names of no more than 14 characters
consisting of alpha-numerics and spaces.  Cases are distinct.  All places
are of an invariant type.  These are: 

start	All players start here.  No other function.
seller	Will sell up to some number of an invariant commodity at a set price.
buyer	Will buy up to some number of an invariant commodity at a set price.
weigh	Will extract tax at a set proportion of weight of load. (unimplemented)
hazard	Will cause obnoxious behaviour. (NB: uninplemented).
finish	Being here at the end is one of the winning conditions.
tip	This is a tip, which will buy anything  at a negative price

Be warned that if you go to the tip with more than one commodity in your truck,
the labourers there will chose a random thing to take. Of couse you can
specify the quantity to be dropped.

Things have names obeying the same rules as place names.  Things
have the following properties:

volume	An invariant volume in millilitres of one unit of the thing.
weight	An invariant weight in grammes of one unit of the thing.

Players have names obeying the same rules as place names.  Players
have the following properties:

where	Some place.
cash	Some amount of money in cents.
volume	Some remaining truck capacity in millilitres.
weight	Some remaining truck capacity in grammes.
fuel	Some remaining fuel in litres.


Note that both "weigh" and "hazard" places have no effect,
so you can pass through or stop there as you wish.

Explanation of miscellaneous information

can_carry(3000000). % maximum weight of each truck
can_hold(20000000). % maximum volume of each truck
max_fuel(100).	% maximum number of units of fuel a truck can carry
last_stop(63).	% the number of the highest-numbered stop (lowest is 0)
moves_remaining(97). % number of moves remaining, players will never see 0 here.
